(WIP) Update to Android cryptography (#1664)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md

Keymaster HAL is an interface to hardware-backed component - Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) or a Secure Element (SE), which is used by Android Keystore. Example of such hardware-backed component is [Titan M](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2018/10/building-titan-better-security-through.html "Building a Titan: Better security through a tiny chip").

###### Key Attestation

> For the applications which heavily rely on Android Keystore for business-critical operations such as multi-factor authentication through cryptographic primitives, secure storage of sensitive data at the client-side, etc. Android provides the feature of [Key Attestation](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation "Key Attestation") which helps to analyze the security of cryptographic material managed through Android Keystore. From Android 8.0 (API level 26), the key attestation was made mandatory for all new(Android 7.0 or higher) devices that need to have device certification for Google suite of apps, such devices use attestation keys signed by the [Google hardware attestation root certificate](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation#root_certificate "Google Hardware Attestation Root Certificate") and the same can be verified while key attestation process.

Reviewer: maybe good to go over the rest and see how you can use it for checkup of the security of the device> and then move that for a part into tamper detection and such...

Author: That leads me to consideration of some kind Android device security checklist. I think it would be good to take that  as a separate issue and define goals and objectives which we want to achieve. What do you think?

Reviewer: I believe one should not be separated from another: key attestation only makes sense if you evaluate ```RootOfTrust ::= SEQUENCE {
    verifiedBootKey  OCTET_STRING,
    deviceLocked  BOOLEAN,
    verifiedBootState  VerifiedBootState,
    verifiedBootHash OCTET_STRING,
}

VerifiedBootState ::= ENUMERATED {
    Verified  (0),
    SelfSigned  (1),
    Unverified  (2),
    Failed  (3),
}```
because that will tell whether the device has been played with. This can then tell something about  what level of trust you can put into the device.

Author: That is clear. I added additional check which should verify device's status and simplify one of existing.

Although the key attestation process can be implemented within the application directly but it is recommended that it should be implemented at the server-side for security reasons. The following are the high-level guidelines for the secure implementation of Key Attestation:

- The server should initiate the key attestation process by creating a random number securely using CSPRNG(Cryptographically Secure Random Number Generator) and the same should be sent to the user as a challenge.
- The client should call the `setAttestationChallenge` API with the challenge received from the server and should then retrieve the attestation certificate chain using the `KeyStore.getCertificateChain` method.
- The attestation response should be sent to the server for the verification and following checks should be performed for the verification of the key attestation response:

>   - Verify the certificate chain, up to the root and perform certificate sanity checks such as validity, integrity and trustworthiness.

Reviewer: Don't forget to check against https://android.googleapis.com/attestation/status to see if one of the certificates of the chain is part of the CRL.

Author: Added.

  - Check if the root certificate is signed with the Google attestation root key which makes the attestation process trustworthy.
  - Extract the attestation certificate extension data, which appears within the first element of the certificate chain and perform the following checks:
    - Verify that the attestation challenge is having the same value which was generated at the server while initiating the attestation process.
    - Verify the signature in the key attestation response.

>     - Now check the security level of the Keymaster to determine if the device has secure key storage mechanism. Keymaster is a piece of software that runs in the security context and provides all the secure keystore operations. The security level will be one of `Software`, `TrustedEnvironment` or `StrongBox`.

Reviewer: note that software version can be done by any... so be careful then. take TE and SB as a real security hook, or you will need to re-evaluate the threatmodel in place as it is one big compromisable software party.

Author: Not sure what you had in mind here. In Key Attestation section there is no `software version` keyword and I'm not able to find relation.

Reviewer: ah no, i mean security level being "software". in that case it might be faked by the device and/or an attacker. there were some notes / warnings 👍 in https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation as well:

```Most likely, the device launched with an Android version less than 7.0 and it does not support hardware attestation. In this case, Android has a software implementation of attestation which produces the same sort of attestation certificate, but signed with a key hardcoded in Android source code. Because this signing key is not a secret, the attestation could have been created by an attacker pretending to provide secure hardware.```

Author: That is clear :) I tried clarifying this - device which support hardware-key attestation and what to check.

When defining the KeyDescription AuthorizationList, the following parameters will affect the encrypted keys security:

- The `algorithm` parameter Specifies the cryptographic algorithm with which the key is used
- The `keySize` parameter Specifies the size, in bits, of the key, measuring in the normal way for the key's algorithm
- The `digest` parameter Specifies the digest algorithms that may be used with the key to perform signing and verification operations

###### Older KeyStore Implementations

Older Android versions don't include KeyStore, but they *do* include the KeyStore interface from JCA (Java Cryptography Architecture). You can use KeyStores that implement this interface to ensure the secrecy and integrity of keys stored with KeyStore; BouncyCastle KeyStore (BKS) is recommended. All implementations are based on the fact that files are stored on the filesystem; all files are password-protected.

> To create one, you can use the `KeyStore.getInstance("BKS", "BC") method`, where "BKS" is the KeyStore name (BouncyCastle Keystore) and "BC" is the provider (BouncyCastle). You can also use SpongyCastle as a wrapper and initialize the KeyStore as follows: `KeyStore.getInstance("BKS", "SC")`.

Reviewer: BCFKS would be more secure here, but requires a later version of java, would that work with spongy castle? https://cryptosense.com/blog/bouncycastle-keystore-security/

Author: As discussed, I updated #1689.

A symmetric encryption key can be generated from the passphrase by using the Password Based Key Derivation Function version 2 (PBKDF2). This cryptographic protocol is designed to generate secure and non brute-forceable keys. The code listing below illustrates how to generate a strong encryption key based on a password.

```java
public static SecretKey generateStrongAESKey(char[] password, int keyLength)
{
    //Initiliaze objects and variables for later use
    int iterationCount = 10000;
    int saltLength     = keyLength / 8;
    SecureRandom random = new SecureRandom();

    //Generate the salt
    byte[] salt = new byte[saltLength];
    random.nextBytes(salt);

    KeySpec keySpec = new PBEKeySpec(password.toCharArray(), salt, iterationCount, keyLength);
    SecretKeyFactory keyFactory = SecretKeyFactory.getInstance("PBKDF2WithHmacSHA1");
    byte[] keyBytes = keyFactory.generateSecret(keySpec).getEncoded();
    return new SecretKeySpec(keyBytes, "AES");

> }

Author: Code came from 0x05e-Testing-Cryptography - I moved part of a text to separate storing part from other crypto topics.  I need to revise chapter 0x05d (as I need want to put there hardware modules for storing key material).

> }

Author: From my perspective, I would recommend removing that part of code:
* 1st we should discourage writing crypto by developers 
* 2nd we should recommend using built-in mechanism

> }

Reviewer: Why would it be wrong to write this? It's still not roling your own and it is perfectly supported by Android.If you need a password based key derivation function, then it should be fine. I rather use `PBKDF2withHmacSHA256` as is available according to https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/crypto/SecretKeyFactory

> }

Author: That's a good point. I need to think where to put it then.

> }

Author: Reintroduces in key generation section.

```

The above method requires a character array containing the password and the needed key length in bits, for instance a 128 or 256-bit AES key. We define an iteration count of 10000 rounds which will be used by the PBKDF2 algorithm. This significantly increases the workload for a brute-force attack. We define the salt size equal to the key length, we divide by 8 to take care of the bit to byte conversion. We use the `SecureRandom` class to randomly generate a salt. Obviously, the salt is something you want to keep constant to ensure the same encryption key is generated time after time for the same supplied password. Note that you can store the salt privately in `SharedPreferences`. It is recommended to exclude the salt from the Android backup mechanism to prevent synchronization in case of higher risk data. 

> Note that if you take a rooted device, or unpatched device, or a patched (e.g. repackaged) application into account as a threat to the data, it might be better to encrypt the salt with a key in the `AndroidKeystore`. Afterwards the Password-based Encryption (PBE) key is generated using the recommended `PBKDF2WithHmacSHA1` algorithm till Android 8.0 (API level 26). From there on, it is best to use `PBKDF2withHmacSHA256`, which will end up with a different key size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that if you take a rooted device or a patched (e.g. repackaged) application into account as a threat to the data, it might be better to encrypt the salt with a key that is placed in the `AndroidKeystore`. The Password-Based Encryption (PBE) key is generated using the recommended `PBKDF2WithHmacSHA1` algorithm, till Android 8.0 (API level 26). For higher API levels, it is best to use `PBKDF2withHmacSHA256`, which will end up with a longer hash value.
```

Should be the hash value instead of the key, right?

Author: Right, as you define key size as a function argument.

>Note that the relevant KeyInfo indicates that secret keys and HMAC keys are insecurely stored on several devices despite private keys being correctly stored on the secure hardware.

The keys of a software-only implementation are encrypted with a [per-user encryption master key](https://nelenkov.blogspot.sg/2013/08/credential-storage-enhancements-android-43.html "Nikolay Elenvok - Credential storage enhancements in Android 4.3"). An attacker can access all keys stored on rooted devices that have this implementation in the folder `/data/misc/keystore/`. Because the user's lock screen pin/password is used to generate the master key, the Android KeyStore is unavailable when the device is locked. For more security Android 9 (API level 28) introduces the `unlockedDeviceRequied` flag. By passing `true` to the `setUnlockedDeviceRequired` method the app prevents its keys stored in `AndroidKeystore` from being decrypted when the device is locked, and it requires the screen to be unlocked before allowing decryption.

###### Hardware-backed Android KeyStore

> As mentioned before, hardware-backed Android KeyStore gives another layer to defense-in-depth security concept for Android. Keymaster Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) was introduced with device running Android 6 (API level 23). Application can verify if key is stored inside security hardware (by checking if `KeyInfo.isinsideSecureHardware` returns `true`). Devices running Android 9 (API level 28) and higher can have a `StrongBox Keymaster` module, an implementation of the Keymaster HAL that resides in a hardware security module which has its own CPU, Secure storage, a true random number generator and a mechanism to resist package tampering. To use this feature, `true` must be passed to the `setIsStrongBoxBacked` method in either the `KeyGenParameterSpec.Builder` class or the `KeyProtection.Builder` class when generating or importing keys using `AndroidKeystore`. To make sure that StrongBox is used during runtime check that `isInsideSecureHardware` returns `true` and that the system does not throw `StrongBoxUnavailableException` which get thrown if the StrongBox Keymaster isn't available for the given algorithm and key size associated with a key. Description of features on hardware-based keystore can be found on [AOSP pages](https://source.android.com/security/keystore "AOSP Hardware-based KeyStore").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned before, hardware-backed Android KeyStore gives another layer to defense-in-depth security concept for Android. Keymaster Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) was introduced with Android 6 (API level 23). Applications can verify if the key is stored inside the security hardware (by checking if `KeyInfo.isinsideSecureHardware` returns `true`). Devices running Android 9 (API level 28) and higher can have a `StrongBox Keymaster` module, an implementation of the Keymaster HAL that resides in a hardware security module which has its own CPU, Secure storage, a true random number generator and a mechanism to resist package tampering. To use this feature, `true` must be passed to the `setIsStrongBoxBacked` method in either the `KeyGenParameterSpec.Builder` class or the `KeyProtection.Builder` class when generating or importing keys using `AndroidKeystore`. To make sure that StrongBox is used during runtime, check that `isInsideSecureHardware` returns `true` and that the system does not throw `StrongBoxUnavailableException` which gets thrown if the StrongBox Keymaster isn't available for the given algorithm and key size associated with a key. Description of features on hardware-based keystore can be found on [AOSP pages](https://source.android.com/security/keystore "AOSP Hardware-based KeyStore").
```

> Keymaster HAL is an interface to hardware-backed component - Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) or a Secure Element (SE), which is used by Android Keystore. Example of such hardware-backed component is [Titan M](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2018/10/building-titan-better-security-through.html "Building a Titan: Better security through a tiny chip").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keymaster HAL is an interface to hardware-backed components - Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) or a Secure Element (SE), which is used by Android Keystore. An example of such a hardware-backed component is [Titan M](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2018/10/building-titan-better-security-through.html "Building a Titan: Better security through a tiny chip").
```

###### Key Attestation

> For the applications which heavily rely on Android Keystore for business-critical operations such as multi-factor authentication through cryptographic primitives, secure storage of sensitive data at the client-side, etc. Android provides the feature of [Key Attestation](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation "Key Attestation") which helps to analyze the security of cryptographic material managed through Android Keystore. From Android 8.0 (API level 26), the key attestation was made mandatory for all new(Android 7.0 or higher) devices that need to have device certification for Google suite of apps, such devices use attestation keys signed by the [Google hardware attestation root certificate](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation#root_certificate "Google Hardware Attestation Root Certificate") and the same can be verified while key attestation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the applications which heavily rely on Android Keystore for business-critical operations such as multi-factor authentication through cryptographic primitives, secure storage of sensitive data at the client-side, etc. Android provides the feature of [Key Attestation](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation "Key Attestation") which helps to analyze the security of cryptographic material managed through Android Keystore. From Android 8.0 (API level 26), the key attestation was made mandatory for all new (Android 7.0 or higher) devices that need to have device certification for Google apps. Such devices use attestation keys signed by the [Google hardware attestation root certificate](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation#root_certificate "Google Hardware Attestation Root Certificate") and the same can be verified through the key attestation process.
```

> During key attestation, we can specify the alias of a key pair and in return, get a certificate chain, which we can use to verify the properties of that key pair. If the root certificate of the chain is [Google Hardware Attestation Root certificate](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation#root_certificate "Google Hardware Attestation Root certificate") and the checks related to key pair storage in hardware are made it gives an assurance that the device supports hardware-level key attestation and the key is in hardware-backed keystore that Google believes to be secure. Alternatively, if the attestation chain has any other root certificate, then Google does not make any claims about the security of the hardware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During key attestation, we can specify the alias of a key pair and in return, get a certificate chain, which we can use to verify the properties of that key pair. If the root certificate of the chain is the [Google Hardware Attestation Root certificate](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation#root_certificate "Google Hardware Attestation Root certificate") and the checks related to key pair storage in hardware are made it gives an assurance that the device supports hardware-level key attestation and the key is in the hardware-backed keystore that Google believes to be secure. Alternatively, if the attestation chain has any other root certificate, then Google does not make any claims about the security of the hardware.
```

Although the key attestation process can be implemented within the application directly but it is recommended that it should be implemented at the server-side for security reasons. The following are the high-level guidelines for the secure implementation of Key Attestation:

- The server should initiate the key attestation process by creating a random number securely using CSPRNG(Cryptographically Secure Random Number Generator) and the same should be sent to the user as a challenge.
- The client should call the `setAttestationChallenge` API with the challenge received from the server and should then retrieve the attestation certificate chain using the `KeyStore.getCertificateChain` method.
- The attestation response should be sent to the server for the verification and following checks should be performed for the verification of the key attestation response:

>   - Verify the certificate chain, up to the root and perform certificate sanity checks such as validity, integrity and trustworthiness. Check on Google mantained [Certificate Revocation Status List](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation#root_certificat "Certificate Revocation Status List") if none of the cerificates in the chain was revoked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Verify the certificate chain, up to the root and perform certificate sanity checks such as validity, integrity and trustworthiness. Check the [Certificate Revocation Status List](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-key-attestation#root_certificat "Certificate Revocation Status List") maintained by Google, if none of the certificates in the chain was revoked.
```

    - Verify that the attestation challenge is having the same value which was generated at the server while initiating the attestation process.
    - Verify the signature in the key attestation response.
    - Verify the security level of the Keymaster to determine if the device has secure key storage mechanism. Keymaster is a piece of software that runs in the security context and provides all the secure keystore operations. The security level will be one of `Software`, `TrustedEnvironment` or `StrongBox`. The client supports hardware-level key attestation if security level is `TrustedEnvironment` or `StrongBox` and attestation certificate chain contains a root certificate singed with Google attestation root key.
    - Verify client's status to ensure full chain of trust - verified boot key, locked bootloader and verified boot state.
    - Additionally, you can verify the key pair's attributes such as purpose, access time, authentication requirement, etc.

> > Note, if for any reason that process fails, it means that the key is not in security hardware. That does not mean that the key is compromised

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note, if for any reason that process fails, it means that the key is not in security hardware. That does not mean that the key is compromised.
```

- Make sure that the app is using the Android KeyStore and Cipher mechanisms to securely store encrypted information on the device. Look for the patterns `AndroidKeystore`, `import java.security.KeyStore`, `import javax.crypto.Cipher`, `import java.security.SecureRandom`, and corresponding usages.
- Use the `store(OutputStream stream, char[] password)` function to store the KeyStore to disk with a password. Make sure that the password is provided by the user, not hard-coded.

##### Storing a Key - example

To mitigate unauthorized use of keys on the Android device, Android KeyStore lets apps specify authorized uses of their keys when generating or importing the keys. Once made, authorizations cannot be changed.

Storing a Key - from most secure to least secure:

- all keys are stored on server and available authentication

> - master key is stored on server and use to encrypt other keys, which are stored in Android KeyStore/SharedPreferences

Author: I should look closer when I use copy+paste ;)

> - the key is derived each time from user provided passphrase

Author: Corrected

- the key is stored in hardware-backed Android KeyStore
- the key is stored in software implementation of Android KeyStore
- master key is stored in Android Keystore and use to encrypt other keys, which are stored in SharedPreferences
- all keys are stored in SharedPreferences
- [not recommended] hardcoded encryption keys in the source code
- [not recommended] predictable key derivation function based on stable attributes

> - [not recommended] stored generated keys in public places (like `/sdcard/`)

Author: I think inspecting patch level suits better for testing MASVS 7.5 (where we check for know vulnerabilities). In such case, example of Storing a Key could expand too much. What do you think?

> - [not recommended] stored generated keys in public places (like `/sdcard/`)

Reviewer: Sounds indeed like a good plan. can you perhaps alter the todo-issue about this please? Then we can resolve this comment :).

> - [not recommended] stored generated keys in public places (like `/sdcard/`)

Author: Created a new issue for MSTG-CODE-5: #1713

> - [not recommended] stored generated keys in public places (like `/sdcard/`)

Reviewer: Thanks!

> The most secure way of handling key material, is simply never storing it on the device. This means that the user should be prompted to input a passphrase every time the application needs to perform a cryptographic operation. Although this is not the ideal implementation from a user experience point of view and construction of passphrase (prone to human error), it is however the most secure way of handling key material. The reason is because key material will only be available in an array in memory while it is being used. Once the key is not needed anymore, the array can be zeroed out. This minimizes the attack window as good as possible. No key material touches the filesystem and no passphrase is stored. However, note that some ciphers do not properly clean up their byte-arrays. For instance, the AES Cipher in BouncyCastle does not always clean up its latest working key. Next, BigInteger based keys (e.g. private keys) cannot be removed from the heap nor zeroed out just like that. Last, take care when trying to zero out the key.

Author: Can you elaborate more about this case? I'm not sure if I understand correctly. 
Sections which (based on my understanding) suit here:
* references to work about prompting a passphrase every time
* describing more about zeroing key material from memory
As this was previously in MSTG (I just reorganize some content), then maybe I don't see the full picture here.

> The most secure way of handling key material, is simply never storing it on the device. This means that the user should be prompted to input a passphrase every time the application needs to perform a cryptographic operation. Although this is not the ideal implementation from a user experience point of view and construction of passphrase (prone to human error), it is however the most secure way of handling key material. The reason is because key material will only be available in an array in memory while it is being used. Once the key is not needed anymore, the array can be zeroed out. This minimizes the attack window as good as possible. No key material touches the filesystem and no passphrase is stored. However, note that some ciphers do not properly clean up their byte-arrays. For instance, the AES Cipher in BouncyCastle does not always clean up its latest working key. Next, BigInteger based keys (e.g. private keys) cannot be removed from the heap nor zeroed out just like that. Last, take care when trying to zero out the key.

Reviewer: Both need examples of how to do it properly and pitfalls what to look for when stuff goes wrong, think off:
- passphrases with salting (salt wrongly saved, passphrase too short)
- having copies of the byte-array hanging arround, etc.

> The most secure way of handling key material, is simply never storing it on the device. This means that the user should be prompted to input a passphrase every time the application needs to perform a cryptographic operation. Although this is not the ideal implementation from a user experience point of view and construction of passphrase (prone to human error), it is however the most secure way of handling key material. The reason is because key material will only be available in an array in memory while it is being used. Once the key is not needed anymore, the array can be zeroed out. This minimizes the attack window as good as possible. No key material touches the filesystem and no passphrase is stored. However, note that some ciphers do not properly clean up their byte-arrays. For instance, the AES Cipher in BouncyCastle does not always clean up its latest working key. Next, BigInteger based keys (e.g. private keys) cannot be removed from the heap nor zeroed out just like that. Last, take care when trying to zero out the key.

Author: Extended that section a bit (by putting references) and reorganized as discussed.

- Make sure that the app is using the Android KeyStore and Cipher mechanisms to securely store encrypted information on the device. Look for the patterns `AndroidKeystore`, `import java.security.KeyStore`, `import javax.crypto.Cipher`, `import java.security.SecureRandom`, and corresponding usages.
- Use the `store(OutputStream stream, char[] password)` function to store the KeyStore to disk with a password. Make sure that the password is provided by the user, not hard-coded.

##### Storing a Key - example

To mitigate unauthorized use of keys on the Android device, Android KeyStore lets apps specify authorized uses of their keys when generating or importing the keys. Once made, authorizations cannot be changed.

Storing a Key - from most secure to least secure:

- the key is stored in hardware-backed Android KeyStore
- all keys are stored on server and are available after strong authentication
- master key is stored on server and use to encrypt other keys, which are stored in Android SharedPreferences
- the key is derived each time from a strong user provided passphrase with sufficient length and salt
- the key is stored in software implementation of Android KeyStore

> - master key is stored in Android Keystore and use to encrypt other keys, which are stored in SharedPreferences

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- master key is stored in software implementation of Android Keystore and use to encrypt other keys, which are stored in SharedPreferences
```

> - all keys are stored in SharedPreferences

Reviewer 2: this should be "not recommended"

Author: all these 4 points (from key derived from passphrase to all keys in SharedPreferences) or only 'all keys in SharedPreferences'?

Reviewer 2: "all keys are stored in SharedPreferences" shouldn't be recommended. 
As long as keys are in the KeyStore then it's best practice, as we are suggesting to leverage a strong encryption mechanisms offered by  Android.

Author: Done. :)

- [not recommended] hardcoded encryption keys in the source code
- [not recommended] predictable key derivation function based on stable attributes
- [not recommended] stored generated keys in public places (like `/sdcard/`)

> The most secure way of handling key material, is simply never storing it on the device. That can be achieved by using [hardware-backed Android KeyStore](0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#hardware-backed-android-keystore) if device is running Android 7.0 (API level 24) and above with available hardware component (Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) or a Secure Element (SE)). That can be check by using guidelines provided for [the secure implementation of Key Attestation](0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#key-attestation). If hardware component is not available and/or support for Android 6.0 (API level 23) and below is required, then that can be achieved by storing a key on remote server and make a key available after authentication. Limitiation is that app requires always online work.

Reviewer 2: The consequences of hosting the keys on the server should be more emphasized to make it clear, as this is a severe downside in some app architectures:

```suggestion
The most secure way of handling key material, is simply never storing it on the device. That can be achieved by using [hardware-backed Android KeyStore](0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#hardware-backed-android-keystore) if device is running Android 7.0 (API level 24) and above with available hardware component (Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) or a Secure Element (SE)). That can be check by using guidelines provided for [the secure implementation of Key Attestation](0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#key-attestation). If hardware component is not available and/or support for Android 6.0 (API level 23) and below is required, then that can be achieved by storing a key on remote server and make a key available after authentication. 

> Please note that if the keys are stored on the server, the app need to be online to decrypt the data. This might be a limitation in some use case of mobile apps and should be carefully thought through as this becomes part of the architecture of the app.
```

> A more common solution (regarding Android API level), however less-user friendly and with some weaknesses is to derive a key from user provided passphrase. This means that the user should be prompted to input a passphrase every time the application needs to perform a cryptographic operation. This is not the ideal implementation from a user experience point of view and construction of passphrase, which is prone to human error. However both approaches make a key available in an array in memory while it is being used and when the key is not needed anymore, the array can be zeroed out. This limits available ways of attack on a key as no key material and its artifacts (like passphrase) touch the filesystem and they are not stored. However there are some weaknessess which need to be taken into consideration. First of all, a key derived from passphrase has [its own weaknesses](0x04g-Testing-Cryptography.md#weak-key-generation-functions). Additionally, a key material should be cleared out from memory as soon as it is not need anymore. However, note that some ciphers do not properly clean up their byte-arrays. For instance, the AES Cipher in BouncyCastle does not always clean up its latest working key leaving some copies of the byte-array hanging around. Next, BigInteger based keys (e.g. private keys) cannot be removed from the heap nor zeroed out just like that. Clearing byte array can be achieved by writing a wrapper which implements [Destroyable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/javax/security/auth/Destroyable.html#destroy--).

Reviewer 2: What do you mean with "and construction of passphrase, which is prone to human error"? Would suggest to remove. 

```suggestion
A more common solution (regarding Android API level), however less-user friendly and with some weaknesses is to derive a key from user provided passphrase. This means that the user should be prompted to input a passphrase every time the application needs to perform a cryptographic operation. This is not the ideal implementation from a user point of view. However this approach makes a key available in an array in memory while it is being used and when the key is not needed anymore, the array can be zeroed out. This limits the available ways of attacks on a key as no key material and its artifacts (like a passphrase) touch the filesystem and they are not stored. However there are some weaknesses which need to be taken into consideration. First of all, a key derived from passphrase has [its own weaknesses](0x04g-Testing-Cryptography.md#weak-key-generation-functions). Additionally, the key material should be cleared out from memory as soon as it is not need anymore. However, note that some ciphers do not properly clean up their byte-arrays. For instance, the AES Cipher in BouncyCastle does not always clean up its latest working key leaving some copies of the byte-array in memory. Next, BigInteger based keys (e.g. private keys) cannot be removed from the heap nor zeroed out just like that. Clearing byte array can be achieved by writing a wrapper which implements [Destroyable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/javax/security/auth/Destroyable.html#destroy--).
```

Author: By prone to human error I mean passphrase which is reused, easy to guess and other flaws which are related to password created by human. Do you mean to remove that 'prone to human error' or whole section?

Reviewer 2: Got it. I rephrased my suggestion in this part so it's more clearer. Please have a look.

In order to securely store symmetric keys on devices running on Android 5.1 (API level 22) or lower, we need to generate a public/private key pair. We encrypt the symmetric key using the public key and store the private key in the `AndroidKeyStore`. The encrypted symmetric key can encoded using base64 and stored in the `SharedPreferences`. Whenever we need the symmetric key, the application retrieves the private key from the `AndroidKeyStore` and decrypts the symmetric key.

> A slightly less secure way of storing encryption keys, is in the SharedPreferences of Android. When [SharedPreferences](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/SharedPreferences.html "Android SharedPreference API") are initialized in [MODE_PRIVATE](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Context.html#MODE_PRIVATE "MODE_PRIVATE"), the file is only readable by the application that created it. However, on rooted devices any other application with root access can simply read the SharedPreference file of other apps, it does not matter whether `MODE_PRIVATE` has been used or not. This is not the case for the AndroidKeyStore. Since AndroidKeyStore access is managed on kernel level, which needs considerably more work and skill to bypass without the AndroidKeyStore clearing or destroying the keys.

Reviewer 2: Does MODE_PRIVATE anyway have much impact? If the device is not rooted the sharedPref is anyway in the  sandbox, so only the app can access it. If it's rooted MODE_PRIVATE has no relevance anymore. 
So I wouldn't consider this a secure approach. and we should call it "Not recommended" above also if all keys are just stored in SharedPref

Author: I will update this. However as it depends on one of previous comments I will update them both.

Reviewer 2: Yes, this goes back to the suggestion of marking it "not recommend" in the section above.

Author: Trying to do it as simple as possible. Have a look :)
